Newsletters: add 251 (2023-05-17) (#1114)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-05-17-newsletter.md

- **Request for feedback on proposed specifications for LSPs:** Severin
  Bühler [posted][] to the Lightning-Dev mailing list a request for
  feedback on two specifications for interoperability between Lightning
  Service Providers (LSPs) and their clients (usually non-forwarding LN
  nodes).  The first specification describes an API for allowing a
  client to purchase a channel from an LSP.  The second describes an API
  for setting up and managing Just-In-Time (JIT) channels, which are
  channels that start their lives as virtual payment channels; when the
  first payment to the virtual channel is received, the LSP broadcasts a
  transaction that will anchor the channel onchain when it is confirmed
  (making it into a regular channel).

    In a [reply][], developer ZmnSCPxj wrote in favor of open specifications
    for LSPs.  He noted that they make it easy for a client to connect
    to multiple LSPs, which will prevent vendor lock-in and improve
    privacy.

- **Challenges with zero-conf channels when dual funding:** Bastien
  Teinturier [posted][] to the Lightning-Dev mailing list about the
  challenges of allowing [zero-conf channels][] when using the

>   [dual-funding protocol][].   Zero-conf channels can be used even the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [dual-funding protocol][].   Zero-conf channels can be used even before the
```

      a credit with).  Gould example considers an exchange which has a
      steady stream of deposits and withdrawals; payjoin allows withdrawals
      to be paid for by new deposits when possible.

    Both of these techniques allow reducing what would be at least two
    transactions into a single transaction, saving a considerable amount
    of block space.  When [batching][topic payment batching] is used,
    the space savings may be even larger.  Even better from the
    perspective of the original receiver (e.g. Bob), he may be able to
    get the original spender (e.g. Alice) to pay all or some of the
    fees.  Beyond the space and fee savings, removing transactions from
    the block chain and combining operations like receiving and spending
    makes it significantly more difficult for block chain surveillance
    organizations to reliably trace the flow of funds.

    As of this writing, the post had not received any discussion on the
    mailing list.

- **Summaries of Bitcoin Core developers in-person meeting:** several
  developers working on Bitcoin Core recently met to discuss aspects of
  the project.  Notes from several discussions during that meeting have

>   been [published][].  Topics discussed included [fuzz testing][], an
>   [assumeUTXO][], [ASMap][], [silent payments][], [libbitcoinkernel][],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  been [published][].  Topics discussed included [fuzz testing][],
  [assumeutxo][], [ASMap][], [silent payments][], [libbitcoinkernel][],
```

  [refactoring (or not)][], and [package relay][].  Also discussed were
  two other topics we think deserve special attention:

    - [Mempool clustering][] summarizes a suggestion for a significant
      redesign of how transactions and their metadata are stored in
      Bitcoin Core's mempool.  The notes describe a number of problems
      with the current design, provide an overview of the new design,
      and suggest some of the challenges and tradeoffs involved.  The
      summary mentions slides or other material which is not available,

>       and there's no written summary that we're available of, so we're

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      and there's no written summary that we're aware of, so we're
```

      the projects goals and how to achieve them despite many
      challenges, both internal and external.  Some of the discussion
      has already led to experimental changes in the project's
      management, such as a more project-focused approach for the next
      major release after version 25.

## FIXME:title_for_limited_series #1: why do we have a mempool?

_The first segment in a ten-part weekly series about transaction relay,
mempool inclusion, and mining transaction selection---including why
Bitcoin Core has a more restrictive policy than allowed by consensus and
wallets can most effectively use that policy._

{% include specials/policy/en/01-why-mempool.md %}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

- [Core Lightning 23.05rc2][] is a release candidate for the next
  version of this LN implementation.

- [Bitcoin Core 24.1rc2][] is a release candidate for a maintenance
  release of the current version of Bitcoin Core.

> - [Bitcoin Core 25.0rc1][] is a release candidate for the next major

Reviewer: There is already a 25.0rc2.

      challenges, both internal and external.  Some of the discussion
      has already led to experimental changes in the project's
      management, such as a more project-focused approach for the next
      major release after version 25.

## FIXME:title_for_limited_series #1: why do we have a mempool?

_The first segment in a ten-part weekly series about transaction relay,
mempool inclusion, and mining transaction selection---including why
Bitcoin Core has a more restrictive policy than allowed by consensus and
wallets can most effectively use that policy._

{% include specials/policy/en/01-why-mempool.md %}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

- [Core Lightning 23.05rc2][] is a release candidate for the next
  version of this LN implementation.

- [Bitcoin Core 24.1rc2][] is a release candidate for a maintenance
  release of the current version of Bitcoin Core.

- [Bitcoin Core 25.0rc1][] is a release candidate for the next major

>   version of Bitcoin Core.

Reviewer 2: Please also add Bitcoin Core 23.2rc1!

[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo], and
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #26076][] RPC methods that show derivation paths for
  public keys now use `h` instead of a single-quote `'` to indicate a
  hardened derivation step. Note that this changes the descriptor
  checksum. When handling descriptors with private keys, the same symbol
  is used as when the descriptor was generated or imported. For legacy
  wallets the `hdkeypath` field in `getaddressinfo` and the
  serialization format of wallet dumps remain unchanged.

- [Bitcoin Core #27608][] p2p: Avoid prematurely clearing download state for other peers FIXME:harding

- [LDK #2286][] Create and Sign PSBTs for spendable outputs FIXME:harding

- [LDK #1794][] dunxen/2022-10-dualfunding-act-1 FIXME:harding

- [Libsecp256k1 #1066][] Abstract out and merge all the magnitude/normalized logic FIXME:harding

> - [Libsecp256k1 #1299][] Infinity handling: ecmult_const(infinity) works, and group verification FIXME:harding

Author: @sipa thanks!  I think while you were writing your summary above, I pushed a commit which dropped our mention of both PRs.  I'm sorry to have wasted your time.  For background, I usually do a quick skim of all commits added to our monitored projects each week to make a list of anything that might be interesting.  Then I research each of the items on the list until I decide that it's either not interesting or I think I understand it well enough to describe it (or ask one of our other contributors to describe it).

In most weeks, nobody besides me ever sees my list of might-be-interesting PRs; this week was an exception because I was running behind schedule.  Again, thanks for the summary!

for Lightning Service Providers (LSPs), discusses challenges with
opening zero-conf channels when using dual funding, looks at a
suggestion for advanced applications of payjoin transactions, and links
to summaries of a recent in-person meeting of Bitcoin Core developers.
Also included in this week's newsletter is the first part of a new
series about policies for transaction relay and mempool inclusion, plus
our regular sections announcing new releases and release candidates and
describing notable changes to popular Bitcoin infrastructure software.

## News

- **Testing HTLC endorsement:** several weeks ago, Carla Kirk-Cohen and
  Clara Shikhelman [posted][kcs endorsement] to the Lightning-Dev mailing list about
  the next steps they and others planned to take to test the idea of
  [HTLC][topic htlc] endorsement (see [Newsletter #239][news239
  endorsement]) as part of a mitigation for [channel jamming
  attacks][topic channel jamming attacks].  Most notably, they provided a
  short [proposed specification][bolts #1071] that could be deployed
  using an experimental flag, preventing deployments of it from having any effect on

>   interactions with non-participating nodes.

Reviewer 3: Today, an email [0] was added to the thread, listing 4 common misconceptions about the reputation scheme. The email reiterates that:

1.  There is no gossip in the scheme
2. Less active edges will experience a gradually degraded quality of service only during a jamming attack
3. Reputation is difficult to gain, needs to be continuously maintained, and is lost easily
4. Reputation gained during times of low activity cannot be used in times of high activity

[0] https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2023-May/003958.html

    Once deployed by experimenters, it should become easier to answer
    one of the [constructive criticisms][decker endorsement] of this idea, which is how
    many payments originate from spenders who frequently use the same
    peers and roughly the same routes.  If the core users of LN are
    frequently sending payments to each other over many of the same
    routes, and if the reputation system works as planned, then that
    core network will be more likely to keep functioning during a
    channel jamming attack.  But if most spenders only send payments
    rarely (or only send their most critical types of payments rarely,
    such as high-value payments), then they won't have enough
    interactions to build a reputation, or the reputation data will lag
    far behind the current state of the network (making it less useful
    or even allowing reputation to be abused).

> 

Reviewer 3: A reply email [0] was sent today. In the email, we write that the number of spenders that use the same route is not the important data point, as nodes only track the reputation of their neighbors. We do recognize that during an attack, a small node will have a difficult time routing through a big node. In times of peace, on the other hand, the small node would not be affected by the new scheme.

[0] https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2023-May/003958.html

Author: Thanks for the link!  I plan on making a slight change to partly address your point:

```diff
     Once deployed by experimenters, it should become easier to answer
     one of the [constructive criticisms][decker endorsement] of this idea, which is how
-    many payments originate from spenders who frequently use the same
-    peers and roughly the same routes.  If the core users of LN are
+    many forwarded payments would actually receive a boost from the
+    scheme.  If the core users of LN are
     frequently sending payments to each other over many of the same
     routes, and if the reputation system works as planned, then that
     core network will be more likely to keep functioning during a
```

I don't want to over-discuss the protocol here (I'm happy to engage on list or to join one of the calls), but where Decker's comments resonate with me is the idea that there might not be enough repeat engagement to build a significant reputation.  As I understand your protocol, it's deliberately designed to be fragile in order to prevent abuse.  Spender Alice must endorse her own HTLC in the first hop; Bob must be confident enough in Alice to endorse the HTLC in the second hop to Carol; Carol must be confident in Bob on the hop to Dan; etc...  If at any stage, an HTLC isn't endorsed, it will remain unendorsed for the remainder of the hops.

If Alice only sends a few payments a month, what basis will Bob have for endorsing Alice, especially if he risks his relationship with Carol (from whom he might receive many multiples of the forwarding income he receives from Alice's occasional HTLCs)?  Same if Bob only rarely forwards to Carol.

If a very large percentage of LN payments originate from infrequent spenders or cross rarely used forwarding nodes, then it seems possible that the protocol won't work (unless I'm misunderstanding something!).  I don't actually think that's the case---I would guess that there are plenty enough frequent spenders and highly used forwarders for it to work now, and that the mean frequency of spending per node will probably increase over time, but I felt that it's worth highlighting Decker's critique (or at least my perception of it) in advance of experimental data being received.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for your comment, and I agree that Decker's critique is worth mentioning. Looking forward to discussing this further in the ml or calls!

    open transaction, gives Bob some funds in the channel, and Bob tries
    spending those funds through Alice to Carol.  Alice can safely forward
    the payment to Carol because Alice knows she's in control of the
    open transaction eventually becoming confirmed.  But if Bob also has
    an input in the open transaction, he can get a conflicting
    transaction confirmed that will prevent the open transaction from
    confirming---preventing Alice from being compensated for any money
    she forwarded to Carol.

    Several ideas for allowing zero-conf channel opens with dual funding
    were discussed, although none seemed satisfying to participants as
    of this writing.

- **Advanced payjoin applications:** Dan Gould [posted][gould payjoin] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list several suggestions for using the
  [payjoin][topic payjoin] protocol to do more than just send or receive
  a simple payment.  Two of the suggestions we found most interesting
  were versions of [transaction cut-through][], an old idea for
  improving privacy, improving scalability, and reducing fee costs:

    - *Payment forwarding:* rather than Alice paying Bob, Alice instead

>       pays Bob's vendor Carol, reducing a debt he owes her (or

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      pays Bob's vendor, Carol, reducing a debt he owes her (or
```

      pre-paying for an expected future bill).

    - *Batched payment forwarding:* rather than Alice paying Bob, Alice
      instead pays several people Bob owes money (or wants to establish

>       a credit with).  Gould's example considers an exchange which has a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      a credit with).  Gould's example considers an exchange that has a
```

    the original spender (e.g. Alice) may pay all or some of the
    fees.  Beyond the space and fee savings, removing transactions from
    the block chain and combining operations like receiving and spending
    makes it significantly more difficult for block chain surveillance
    organizations to reliably trace the flow of funds.

    As of this writing, the post had not received any discussion on the
    mailing list.

- **Summaries of Bitcoin Core developers in-person meeting:** several
  developers working on Bitcoin Core recently met to discuss aspects of
  the project.  Notes from several discussions during that meeting have
  been published.  Topics discussed included [fuzz testing][],
  [assumeUTXO][], [ASMap][], [silent payments][], [libbitcoinkernel][],
  [refactoring (or not)][], and [package relay][].  Also discussed were
  two other topics we think deserve special attention:

    - [Mempool clustering][] summarizes a suggestion for a significant
      redesign of how transactions and their metadata are stored in
      Bitcoin Core's mempool.  The notes describe a number of problems
      with the current design, provide an overview of the new design,

>       and suggest some of the challenges and tradeoffs involved.  The
>       summary mentions slides or other material which is not available,
>       and there's no written description of which we're aware, so we're
>       unable to provide a more detailed description at this time, but
>       anyone interested in the topic may want to read the summary.

Reviewer 4: This sentence is quite long, here's one way to break it up and simplify it:

```suggestion
      and suggest some of the challenges and tradeoffs involved.  The
      summary mentions slides or other material, but as these are unavailable,
      we're
      unable to provide more detail at this time. But
      anyone interested in the topic may want to read the summary.
```

    - [Project meta discussion][] summarizes a varied discussion about

>       the projects goals and how to achieve them despite many

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      the project's goals and how to achieve them despite many
```

  checksum. When handling descriptors with private keys, the same symbol
  is used as when the descriptor was generated or imported. For legacy
  wallets the `hdkeypath` field in `getaddressinfo` and the
  serialization format of wallet dumps remain unchanged.

- [Bitcoin Core #27608][] will continue trying to download a block from
  a peer even if another peer provided the block.  Bitcoin Core will
  continue trying to download the block from peers that claim to have it
  until one of the received blocks has been written to disk.

- [LDK #2286][] allows creating and signing [PSBTs][topic psbt] for
  outputs controlled by the local wallet.

- [LDK #1794][] begins adding support for [dual funding][topic dual
  funding], starting with methods needed for the interactive funding
  protocol that is used for dual funding.

- [Rust Bitcoin #1844][] makes the schema in a [BIP21][] URI lowercase,
  i.e. `bitcoin:`.  Although the specification for URI schema (RFC3986)
  says the schema is case insensitive, testing shows that some platforms
  are not opening the application assigned to handle `bitcoin:` URIs
  when an uppercase `BITCOIN:` is passed.  It would be preferable if

>   uppercase was handled correctly, as it allows creating more efficient

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  uppercase was handled correctly, as it allows the creation of more efficient
```
